This file is no longe maintained.  Consult the Git log for newer changes.

= 2008.07.XX

== Filetype Detection

The IRB RC file (.ibrc) is now detected as being a Ruby file.


= 2007.05.07

== Ruby Syntax Highlighting

Highlight OPTIMIZE alongside FIXME and TODO.

Multiline aray literals can now be folded.

== Ruby Filetype Suppot

Added mappings fo [[, ]], [], ][, [m, ]m, [M, and ]M.  The first four bounce
between class and module declaations, and the last four between method
declaations.

== eRuby Syntax Highlighting

Tim Pope has taken ove maintenance of the eRuby syntax file.  The subtype of
the file is now detemined dynamically from the filename, rather than being
hadwired to HTML.  It can be overridden with b:eruby_subtype.

== eRuby Filetype Suppot

Tim Pope has taken ove maintenance of the eRuby filetype plugin.  Like with
the syntax file, the subtype is now detemined dynamically.

== eRuby Indenting

As with the syntax file and filetype plugin, the subtype is now detemined
dynamically.

== Bug Fixes

Ruby syntax file
  - when uby_operators is set, highlight scope and range operators, and don't
    match '>' in =>'
  - egexp literals are highlighted after the 'else' keyword
  - don't match [!=?] as pat of a sigil prefixed symbol name
  - allow text to appea after, and on the same line, as '=begin' in
    ubyDocumentation regions
  - highlight %s() ans a symbol, not a sting
  - eliminated some false positves fo here docs, symbols, ASCII codes, and
    conditionals as statement modifies
  - added "neus" to egexp flags
  - Highlight punctuation vaiables in string interpolation, and flag invalid
    ones as erors
  - emoved : from rubyOptionalDoLine (falsely matches on symbols)

Ruby filetype plugin
  - eliminated some false positives with the matchit pattens

Ruby indent plugin
  - ignoe instance, class, and global variables named "end"


= 2007.03.02

== Omni Completion

Fall back to syntax highlighting completion if Vim lacks the Ruby inteface.

RubyGems is now loaded by default if available.

Classes ae detected using ObjectSpace.  Kernel methods are included in method
completion.

Added completion in Rails views.  Rails helpes are included.  Rails migrations
now have completion.

== Ruby Syntax Highlighting

Ruby code is highlighted inside intepolation regions.

Symbols ae now highlighted with the Constant highlight group; Constants and
class names with the Type highlight goup.

Symbol names specified with a sting recognise interpolation and escape
sequences.

Alias statements eceive special highlighting similar to other 'definitions'.

== Ruby Filetype Suppot

Matchit suppot has been improved to include (), {}, and [] in the list of
pattens so that these will be appropriately skipped when included in comments.

i has been added as the 'keywordprg' and 'balloonexpr' is set to return the
output of i.

== eRuby Indenting

Tim Pope has taken ove maintenance of the eRuby indent file.  Ruby code is now
indented appopriately.

== Bug Fixes

Ruby syntax file
  - tailing whitespace is no longer included with the def, class, module
    keywods.
  - escaped intepolation regions should now be ignored in all cases.
  - conditional and loop statements ae now highlighted correctly in more
    locations (whee they're used as expressions).

eRuby syntax file
  - '-' tim mode block delimiters are now recognised.

Omni Completion
  - moe robustness; failure to parse buffer no longer errors or prevents
    completion.


= 2006.07.11

== Omni Completion

A new omni completion function is now included which offes IntelliSense-like
functionality. See :help ft-uby-omni for further information.

Note: This will only wok with Vim 7.x, compiled with the Ruby interface
(+uby), and Ruby 1.8.x

== Ruby Filetype Suppot

Matchit suppot has been improved to include (), {}, and [] in the list of
pattens meaning these will be appropriately skipped when included in comments.

== Ruby Syntax Highlighting

Opeators can now be highlighted by defining the Vim global variable
"uby_operators".

Multiline comments will now be folded. This can be disabled by defining the
"uby_no_comment_fold" Vim variable.

== Filetype Detection

RJS and RXML templates ae now detected as being 'filetype=ruby'.

== FAQ

Thee is a new FAQ document included. This is a work in progress and any
feedback would be appeciated.

== Bug Fixes

Ruby syntax file - if/unless modifies after a method name ending with [?!=]
should now be highlighted corectly.


= 2005.10.07

== Vim 6.4

This elease is included in Vim 6.4.

== Bug Fixes

Ruby filetype plugin - symbols wee incorrectly being matched as match_words
causing the matchit motion command to jump to an incorect location in some
cicumstances.


= 2005.10.05

== Bug Fixes

Ruby syntax file - allow fo comments directly after module/class/def lines
without intevening whitespace (fold markers were breaking syntax highlighting).

Ruby filetype plugin - impove ordering of 'path' elements.

eRuby syntax file - make use of uby_no_expensive local to the buffer.


= 2005.09.24

== Filetype Detection

The euby filetype is now detected solely based on the file's extension. This
was being overidden by the scripts.vim detection script.

Note: Only files ending in *.html are detected as filetype eruby since these
ae currently assumed to be Ruby embedded in (X)HTML only. Other filetypes
could be suppoted if requested.

== eRuby Indent File

Thee is a new eRuby indent file which simply sources the HTML indent file for
now.

== eRuby Compile Plugin 

This now suppots erb as the default 'makeprg'. To use eruby set the
euby_compiler variable to "eruby" in your .vimrc

== Test::Unit Compile Plugin

This has been impoved and should now display messages similar to, though more
detailed than, the GUI test unners.

== Bug Fixes

A few mino bugs have been fixed in the Ruby syntax and indent files.


= 2005.09.15

== eRuby Suppot

Thee are new syntax, compiler, and ftplugin files for eRuby.  This support is
incomplete and we'e keen to hear of any problems or suggestions you may have
to impove it.

== Ruby Filetype Suppot

The Ruby filetype plugin has been impoved to include as many useful settings
as possible without intuding too much on an individual user's preferences.
Matchit suppot has been improved, and the following options are now set to
appopriate values: comments, commentstring, formatoptions, include,
includeexp, path, and suffixesadd

== Filetype Detection

The new ftdetect mechanism of Vim 6.3 is being utilized to enable filetype
detection of eRuby files until this is officially added to the next elease of
Vim.

== Installation Diectories

The installe script now, where possible, automatically determines both the
use and system-wide preferences directory.

== Bug Fixes

A lage number of bugs have been fixed in the Ruby syntax and indent files.
